# Managed Services

## Type of "As A Service"
Important parts of a software system in order:
- Software
    - Applications
    - Application Runtime
    - OS
- Software & Hardware
    - Virtualization
- Hardware
    - Physical Hardware
    - Networking

### Infrastructure As A Service (IAAS)
The one taking this service is responsible for everything above the virtualization layer - OS (linux, MS, Mac, etc.), application runtime (java, node, etc.), Application and its configuration (web app, android app, etc.)

### Platform As A Service (PAAS)
The one taking this service is responsible of for ONLY the top layer - the application code and configuration.  Ex. Google App Engine,
- Examples
    - CAAS - Container As A Service
    - FAAS - Function As A Service
    - Other flavors include Databases, AI, ML, Operations, etc.

#### Understanding CAAS
- Microservices architecture can benefit from CAAS.
- Docker is a popular container-software
- We can create a Docker container for each microservice
- The Docker Image would contain all the needs of a microservice - for ex. the application runtime, application code and configuration.  Thus, Docker containers run the same way on any infrasturcture.
- Advantages of Docker Containers:
    - They are light weight (compared to Virual Machines)
    - they provide isolation for containers
    - they are cloud/environment neutral - i.e. the work the same way with any cloud provider or even on local.
- Container Orchestration
    - Containers need to be scaled up or down and replaced when unhealthy.  This process is called orchestration.  Kubernetes is a popular container orchestration tool.
    - A container orchestration tool would manage the deployment of the containers into clusters and each cluster can have multiple servers.
    - Container orchestrations offer features like:
        - Auto Scaling
        - Self Healing - 
        - Service discovery - help microservices find one another thus removes the need to hardcode the URLs.
        - load balancing - 
        - zero-downtime deployments
